# Energiekonzepte für Städe: Netzoptimierung

### Links

- [Data](..%2Fdata)
- [Github](https://github.com/Sonaion/hackHPI2024)
- [Overpass API](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Overpass_API)

---

Im context of the energy transition, not only the industry and every household must rethink their energy concepts to
reduce the CO2 footprint, but this also applies to cities and municipalities. A significant part of this transition is
municipal heat planning and the use of renewable energies to meet demands.

Currently, these planning processes are mostly done manually, presenting an opportunity for automation. The task at hand
involves writing an algorithm that enables energy concept planning for a city, making assumptions that should allow
implementation within 24 hours. One of these assumptions is that the given cities do not have existing facilities to
source energy from, thus allowing for a complete redesign of the planning process from scratch.

For this purpose, city data is provided, which has been extracted from OSM data via the Overpass API using a
preprocessing script. This process can be applied to any city, as demonstrated in 01_CityDataPreprocessing.ipynb. These
data include building data and usage information, street data, and data on the feasibility of renewable energies such as
photovoltaics and solar thermal.

Additionally, data for producers, storage, and pipelines are provided in the simplest form. These data include
investment costs, operating costs, and CO2 emissions. Ultimately, the program should develop an energy concept that
calculates investment costs, operating costs, and CO2 emissions, optimizing based on given weights. These target values
are then summed using these weights to calculate a fitness value, which determines the quality of the solution. The goal
is to minimize this fitness value accordingly.

The objective functions are defined as follows:

```math
investFactor * totalInvest + operatingFactor * operatingCosts + co2Factor * totalCo2Emission
```

The sum of the factors can be assumed to be '1'.

At the end, a network should emerge from the city data, which sizes the producers and pipelines and extrapolates their
operating behavior based on the two given reference days to the entire year. The exact data structure and interfaces
will be discussed in the following sections.

## Assumptions Made / Given Parameters

- There is a city with buildings containing specific usage data, street data, and area data for renewable energies.
- There are generators, pipelines, and optionally, storage facilities.
- Generators, pipelines, and storage facilities have investment costs, operating costs, and CO2 emissions.
- Generators and storage facilities can only be built on the specified areas and have a power potential that is always
  referenced to the area in square meters.
- Pipelines can only be built on the streets and have a length in meters.
- Buildings have energy demands specified per square meter and need to be extrapolated.
- Energy demands are provided for a reference summer and winter day.
- Energy potentials are specified in [potentials](data/loadprofiles/summer/potentials.json), indicating how much energy
  per square meter of a certain energy type can be utilized.
- There is a weighting that considers investment costs, maintenance costs, and CO2 emissions.
- Only a limited number of generators, storage facilities can be provided per area, based on available space.
- Energy networks can be built from vertices of areas/buildings to the nearest street point.
- Pipelines have energy loss per meter.
- Storage facilities have energy loss per hour.
- 'operatingCost' and 'co2' are values that must be paid for each use of an entity.
- 'invest' only needs to be paid once per selected entity.
- Energy demands for each usage type are provided in [summer/winter](data/loadprofiles/summer).
- There are summer and winter reference data, which should be extrapolated to 180 days each to consider a whole year.

## Task

Write a program that accepts the input files of a city and creates an energy concept. The input files include city,
generator, storage, pipeline, energy potential, and demand information. These are provided in the following files:
[Potsdam](data/total_Potsdam.json)
[Systems](data/systems.json)
[Reference Load Profiles](data/loadprofiles/summer)

The program should generate an output file indicating, for each area, which generators and storage facilities were built
there. It should also specify how much energy is produced per hour and which pipelines or demands they cover. At the
end, key metrics should be provided, such as the total investment costs, operating costs, and CO2 emissions generated by
the concept. The quantity refers to the output and is calculated by {input in Kw}*{output.factor}

The quantity of storages is based on their max capacity.

Pipelines can only be drawn from and to points specified in the input files (streets or corners of buildings).

## Disclaimer

The potentials show how much energy can be generated per square meter of a certain type.
The actual energy generation is limited by the available space in the area and the choosen Supplier.

!!! Photovoltaics and Solarthermal can use the hole energy potential per square meter for one module.

Suppliers are limited by the quantity. A Supplier which can output 1kW is one quantity. If we need to
produce 2kW, we need to build 2 Suppliers. which means we need to pay the invest cost twice. All Units are given in
kW. all Demands in [summer](data%2Floadprofiles%2Fsummer), [winter](data%2Floadprofiles%2Fwinter) are given in kW/m^2.

The operatingCost and co2 are values that need to be paid for each use of an entity.

Photovoltaics and Solarthermal have are not limited by their output, but bei their area.

## Output format

The format should follow the [output_example.json](output_example.json).

Output the following information in a JSON file:

- Total investment costs
- Total operating costs
- Total CO2 emissions
- Total Demands
- Total Loss

For each Supplier, Pipeline, and optionally Storage, output the following information:

- Total investment costs
- Total operating costs
- Total CO2 emissions

For each area/building, output the following information:

- Total Invest, Operating, CO2, Demand, Loss
- Which Supplier, Storage facilities were built on this area and in what quantity
- For each Supplier, Storage:
    - Same output as for Total Suppliers, and Storages
    - (optional storage) how much was loaded/unloaded into the storage and its current power level.

For each pipeline-network, output the following information:

- Which nodes belong to the network
- Total Invest, Operating, CO2
- a key "connections" which is an array and contains an array with objects of 2 nodes and the length of the pipeline
  between them:
    - a from Node
    - a to Node
    - a Usage (positive indicates the direction from->to, negative the opposite)
    - Loss